I've seen different fashions come and go
within this YouTube vagin demi-monde
maybe we're now going to see a fashion
lasts for some time of invoking the name
of reason with a capital R of getting
out these notions of strictly formal
logic and beating meat-eaters over them
maybe that's going to be involved maybe
a few people are going to get Fame
notoriety and money at a YouTube and
patreon by doing exactly that and maybe
cuz you know maybe it's going to be
entertaining to the audience to see
vegans beating meat-eaters over the head
with these ideas of logic it's saddening
for me to see that it's saddening
because I feel that all the issues were
dealing with here or in a category of
things that are hard to evaluate much
less like the science of economics and
more like the science of education what
is effective activism this is like
asking what is effective art we're not
going to be able to measure it I mean
what is progress you can't measure
progress with the ruler change is an
objective fact but progress is an
ideology all right I was sitting in a
juice juice shop the other day where
they take fresh fruit oranges mangoes
bananas they take ten cents where the
fresh fruits put into a machine grinding
into a juice and then sell it for two
dollars and you can measure the
transaction down to a tenth of a cent
every element of that right the value of
the machine that's used to do it the
cost of the electricity the cost to
replace that machine when it's worn out
the cost of the plastic cup it's put
into the value of the labor the cost of
wages e every element of that formula
can be worked out and it's beautiful the
science of economics in that sense it
gives you this thrilling feeling that
the world is a logical rational machine
you know that
unseen cogs and gears behind reality
around us are perfectly in tune okay you
look at the job I do by contrast is it
rational to pay a Canadian to fly on an
airplane ticket around the world to this
remote part of China to stand in the
classroom with 40 students and teach
them how to speak English 40 students in
a university context what do the
outcomes justify that cost you know the
ochem justify my salary can I measure
the progress my students are making or
can I prove that there's really
something special about them hearing a
lecture for me as opposed to someone
born and raised in China you know the
fact that you can't measure it doesn't
mean that it's not worth researching
worth investigating but we're really in
this category of what is effective art
and what is effective education if we're
seriously going to discuss comparing one
argument to another and saying is this
early it's not a good argument for
veganism at that level i find the
discussions a bit bizarre but that is
what some people want to do don't say
well this argument is rational in this
argument not who we all got to watch
yourselves carefully here guys because
it's very easy to invoke the name of
reason well actually being unreasonable
okay and that is the main impression
that these debates if you can even call
them debates that I see on youtube
lately have on me they simply convince
me that these people are not interested
in being reasonable and being reasonable
is a tremendously important virtue when
you're sitting down and talking with
people about veganism and being
reasonable as a virtue this is not
something I can quote I can turn into a
formal methodology it's not saying I can
draw up a flowchart for it's not
something i can easily preach or
teach or publish a book about you know
and I would encourage people to go back
and watch the video i did some weeks ago
book review of a seat at kc taft PhD
comes of a background in psychology he's
trying to make a formula he's trying to
make a methodology of how to effectively
preach teach educate people about
veganism i feel the book is a failure
but i think the failure is worth
reflecting on it's worth learning from
why it failed it's not wrong to care
about logic it's not wrong to care about
being rational nobody is going to tell
you that being irrational is better than
being rational or that being illogical
is better than being logical but when
you're sitting down with somebody
face-to-face and they're telling you
that they grew up on a farm and they
remember the first time their father you
know slit a pig's throat in front of
them and how they felt about it they
remember what it was like the first time
they went fishing and watching a fish
get clubbed on the head you know as it's
thrashing around and suffocating you
know what is the role of logic and
reason in these discussions because that
is bizarrely you know the locus for this
debate is not talking about effective
activism organization a larger scale but
effective argumentation there's another
earlier video I can refer back to you
that has artichoke in the title where I
say you know don't don't debate the
details of another video I'll give the
link to both those well this one that's
been quite a while ago where I talk with
the problem of eating's getting burnt
out and frustrated and emotional
exhausted because many vegans go around
every time this kind of debate comes up
on Facebook or in the workplace or in
their family they end up trying to
engage in these things in a way that I
think is counterproductive both of the
meat-eaters and for the vegans yes now
you can you can insist on these rules of
formal logic and snub people and
reproach them for being guilty of
logical fallacies or
you know you could you could practice
some other virtues their other virtues
out there for you to choose between you
could practice saying Socratic method
you could just try to really empathize
with not just the argument of presenting
but why they're presenting it what are
the motivations behind why they're
presenting this argument even if the
argument is irrational I mean if their
argument is that their grandparents eat
me therefore they need how can it
possibly advance that conversation how
could it be of real educational value
she just say to them oh well that's an
appeal to tradition fallacy they've just
told you that their relationship with
their grandparents is deeply meaningful
to them and you've told them it's it's
an appeal to tradition fallacy well
that's fallacious okay end of
conversation all right let's let's put
into a human face on it I used to be
studying Korean a jib way so if I meet
someone and they're struggling very hard
to continue the tradition of fur
trapping and hunting because their
grandparents did it that they're going
out to the the trapline in the forest
and killing and eating moose and beaver
because they say that's deeply
meaningful because that's their
relationship with their grandparents and
their ancestors you can say that you can
throw it in their face that this is a
logical fallacy where do you think that
that conversation is going and the other
more bizarre thing is and what I see is
then the use of this really harsh
castigating counter productive use of
reason with a capital R that is
completely unreasonable being used
within veganism so that basically one
vegan can bully another and shut down
another and what have you I mean this is
the problem too even the example I used
to open this of looking at the fruit
juice shop and how it works the
economics of taking ten cents worth of
fruit and turning into two dollars of
the juice that already is an analysis so
it's positive and productive right
whether we're looking at education or
economics right I don't see these
logical categories used in an analytical
way they're not being used in a
productive analysis to not being used
for research they're being used just a
bully and intimidate other p
whether it's vegans bullying meat eaters
or vegans bullying other vegans and all
it does is convince me that you are
being unreasonable that you are not
someone I can organize the movement with
that you are not someone I can
participate with collaborate with
whether it's on a YouTube video or it's
ultimately incorporating a charity and
doing a fundraiser and trying to make
something happen veganism as a formal
political movement which is the future
I'm really fundamentally concerned about
here not so much who called who stupid
or who called him fat in the last week
on I'm vegan YouTube um look a lot of
these guys to meet you know this kid ask
yourself as the honesty to say that he's
got a minimum wage job in a call center
and what he really wants is to come on
YouTube and make enough money from
YouTube and patreon that he can quit his
job okay my heart goes out to him that's
real that's keeping it real and he
already makes more money than I do on
patreon so good luck to them you know
maybe we'll work out and maybe overall
in the next ten years maybe he's going
to do something really positive for
future vegan movement and that's great
but kid in your interaction with me
vegan to vegan and this is YouTube vegan
to YouTube begin the Canadian youtube
vid we have a lot in common what we're
both Canadian atheists via you couldn't
you make a list of how much we've got in
common okay the effect of your approach
on me is only to alienate me and
convince me that you're an irrational
person to your person who is not
interested in being reasonable and that
is while you're invoking the name of
reason with a capital R and the name of
logic with a capital L so even if that's
just one anecdote about what the
outcomes of your method are I'd
encourage you to take that anecdote
seriously because in principle on this
channel I have all kinds of vegans here
on
casts and doing videos of me and stuff
just to promote them just because
they're vegan and they offer a different
perspective I mean I promoted the hell
out of American unicorn she was the only
Mormon the vegan as another guy talked
into the day is a Muslim vegan be
addressed at another channel and get his
perspective you know he can be vegans
who disagree with me in a fundamental
way but the interest in having a channel
killer said so you went from being
someone who I would have been happy to
welcome on this channel for that reason
and somewhere I might have had some
glimmer of hope than the next five years
of the next 50 years we're going to find
ourselves working together in Canada as
part of the same vegan movement and now
you're somebody where if I get an email
from you it's going into the spam folder
okay that's the effect that on me and
you're promoting this method this
methodology as if it is the best way to
engage with meat eaters right all i can
say is i think you're one hundred and
ten percent wrong okay and there are
other methods out there Socratic method
is not logical all right it's not
there's nothing logical about
directional I guess is another question
but to say look even if you're starting
off of the awareness the other person is
wrong morally wrong ethically wrong
logically wrong to say hey I'm I'm not
in it to win it I think I minute
understand where this person is coming
from I'm going to suspend my disbelief
I'm going to pretend ignorance for long
enough that when I engage that the
person across the table yeah you know
what the appeal to tradition fallacy
isn't it more meaningful for me to try
to learn what tradition means to them
why it's shaping their behavior and then
for me to have whatever kind of
influence I can have in that argument I
mean the response to that when somebody
tells you they grew up on a farm a very
often my responses oh I have memories of
growing up on our farm too is that a
logical response is that is that a
repost is that a rebuttal it's just
human being is coming together and with
some level of decency sharing
information contrasting their
perspectives and learning from one
another
Arians and if you can't do that and if
you can't do that vegan the vegan
someone who shares as much in common
with you in terms of values objectives
even methods as me I think you do have a
problem and again if it's fashionable
and it makes money and it gets viewers
to some extent all I can say is I'm
happy for you but there's another extent
to which i can come on here and tell you
this whole methodology beating
meat-eaters over the head with formal
logic and beating your fellow vegans
over the head with formal logic at best
it makes you a buffoon and at worst i
think it makes people who could be at
least your colleagues into your enemies